# Image-Pre-processing-using-FPGA
Implementation of Median Filter on FPGA


Real-time image processing is difficult to achieve on a serial processor. This is due to several factors such as the large data set represented by the image, and the complex operations which may need to be performed on the image. At real-time video rates of 25 frames per second a single operation performed on every pixel of a 768 by 576 color image (PAL frame) equates to 33 million operations per second. This does not take into account the overhead of storing and retrieving pixel values. Many image processing applications require that several operations be performed on each pixel in the image resulting in an even large number of operations per second.
One alternative is to use a field programmable gate array (FPGA). Continual growth in the size and functionality of FPGAs over recent years has resulted in an increasing interest in their use as implementation platforms for image processing applications, particularly real-time video processing.
Digital image processing is an ever expanding and dynamic area with applications     reaching out into our everyday life. These applications involve different processes like image enhancement and object detection. Implementing such applications on a general purpose computer is not very time efficient due to additional constraints on memory and other peripheral devices.
Application specific hardware implementation offers much greater speed than a software implementation. With advances in the VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) technology hardware implementation has become an attractive alternative. Field Programmable Gate Arrays are reconfigurable devices. Hardware design techniques such as parallelism and pipelining techniques can be developed on a FPGA. Implementing image processing algorithms on reconfigurable hardware minimizes the time-to-market cost, enables rapid prototyping of complex algorithms and simplifies debugging and verification.
